Coding with AI:

Aaron: I used the Codeium extension in VSCode to enhance my coding productivity. By leveraging its autocomplete and suggestion features, I was able to streamline my coding process significantly. Codeium provided suggestions and completions while I was writing code, helping me write cleaner and more efficient code with fewer errors. Its assistance was particularly useful when writing testing code, as it helped me generate relevant snippets quickly. Additionally, I explored using Codeium for generating documentation, which proved very useful in documenting quickly.

Samuel: I used GitHub Copilot. Copilot was incredibly useful because it allowed me to very quickly write boilerplate lines of code by repeatedly hitting tab and enter, and it was correct most of the time. The nice thing about Copilot is that you don't have to think about it— you can just see the suggestion automatically and reject it if it is not what you want. Very often, I used Copilot to navigate coding a program that I was not sure exactly was correct, and I could just run it and maybe adjust it accordingly until it worked.

Kyle: I used ChatGPT. I asked GPT to help explain what one of the React project files did and also asked it to explain some React documentation to me. It was very useful and in-depth. It broke down the file into different components and explained specifically what each component did and how. Interestingly, it was also able to explain what APIs each component used and was able to infer what the purpose of functions and methods were. To ensure that the AI output was correct I could manually check the documentation for React and see if its explanation was correct. For the React file which I asked it to explain, I could see that it was accurate by the fact that it accurately described each function in the file. 

Lindsey: I experimented with Vercel v0.dev after seeing it being demoed in class. This tool seems interesting and helpful for prototyping our UI and simple components where it may be better to generate it rather than coding it up. I asked it to generate a dashboard similar to the Spotify home page and the AI output was better than I expected. The steps I took to ensure that the output was more accurate were copying the generated code and making small modifications to fit what I was looking for. It also gives pretty good inspiration as to how we can improve the layout of our project to be more aesthetically pleasing.

Ethan: This week I used GitHub Copilot for the first time. It was easy to set up and after integrating it with VSCode, I experimented with it by writing small sections of code and testing the tab autocomplete feature that Copilot provides. It was interesting and very useful as it could predict what I wanted to write or reference previous code so that writing new lines was much more efficient. Most of the time the autofill generated was correct, but there were a few occasions in which the feature distracted me and led me astray from what I wanted to do. However, some experimentation and thinking through the debugging was enough to fix it. Overall, I think I will continue to use it in the future when coding as a tool to expedite whatever I need to work on.

Richard: I experimented with Codeium. It helped generate boilerplate code for some basic react components. It seemed better than GPT or other basic LLMs since it was able to look at other components in the project and work around the way the components worked together. For example, when adding a button to the footer, it was able to identify the layout of the other components in the footer and adjust the UI accordingly. In addition, it was very helpful for autofilling basic code snippets and also as an embedded AI chat within VS Code which was more convenient than GPT 4. There are still limitations, however, as it often generated incomplete or incorrect code on the first attempt and required some additional prompting to get the intended results.
